Hey,
guys,
welcome back.
So in this video,
we're going to discuss the difference between recording macros in absolute mode and
recording them in relative mode.
So the best way to illustrate the differences to illustrate it with an example.
So,
basically,
air,
I'm gonna start recording a new micro,
so I'm gonna go to the developer top here,
Click on record,
Macro.
And the first backer is gonna be an absolute mode.
So I'm just going to write its name.
It's gonna be absolute macro,
and then I'm going to click.
OK,
so now I'm going to select cell a one and put a one in it and then put two and sell a two
and then three in cell a three and then I'm going to stop recording.
So now if we examine the code on the macro here.
So as you can see here,
the coat says,
Go to sell a one,
put one,
go to sell a to put to go,
to sell a three,
put three and then it's selected a four.
Because when you press enter,
we go to the cell that is below the current cell.
So if we just delete the 1213 year in cells,
a one a two and three and try to run the macro again.
You can see here that we got 12 and three put in cells a one,
a two and a three.
Every single time we run the macro,
we will just get this same result.
Okay,
Now let's try to record the macro in relative mode.
So why the previous marker was an absolute motive was because we did not click on this
button here that says use relative references.
So let's see when we recorded INR Altimo.
So I'm gonna click on record.
Macro here on,
I'm gonna name it relative Micro here and I'm gonna click.
OK,
gonna use relative references here.
Put one in cell D 42 and then three and then stop recording.
And let's examine the code again.
So as you can see here,
it says,
put one in the current Salva is active and then go one cell downwards.
Put two and then go one cell downwards and put a three.
So this is what the relative code says,
and this means that it's actually gonna put 12 and three,
depending on which cell is selected,
it is relative,
so it's gonna be relative to the selected sell.
So if I select,
for example,
cell F four on Run,
the relative macro is gonna put 1213 in F four,
F five and F six if I select another cell here J for runway relative macro,
we get 12 and three in J four j five j six.
So it's relative to the current selected cell.
It's not absolute when we use the absolute macro each and every time you run it.
As you can see,
I'm going to run the absolute macro.
So each and every time it's run,
it puts 12 and three and sells a one a two a three each time it puts 12 and three in the
same location.
But the 2nd 1 here is relatives who is relative to the selected sell.
So that is the difference between recording in absolute mood and recording in relative mode
.
So how do you know whether you're in absolute mode or in relative mode?
It's through this,
but if this button is shaded,
use relative references.
If it is shaded like now,
then you are in relative mode.
If you press on it again and remove the shade,
you can see here you're back to absolute mode when recording.
Okay,
so that is the difference between the absolute mode and relative mode when recording macros
.
And I still want you not to worry.
If you don't understand the code for now,
you won't be able to understand it as we progress through the course.
So thank you very much watching this video,
and I'll see you on the next one.